Sarah Essay

HEADING:
See Into My Mind

SUBHEAD:
A Subjective Journey through the eyes and minds of persons with mental illness.


ESSAY:
This is a topic that might have been experienced by many, there are approximately one in four adults that has a mental illness worldwide. The issues of mental health have a long and complex history that could be dated back to the pre-biblical times when abnormal behaviors were perceived as possessed by evil spirits. As mental illnesses could be affecting one’s thoughts, feelings, and behaviors in various degrees, these symptoms depending on social context were often considered abnormal, and the individuals undergoing them are viewed as deviant. Of course what classifies are abnormal or deviant in a certain social context may not be classified as the same in another.1

IMAGE 1 (left) <i>Magnified II</i>, Sarah Zou, Photographed through glass with Photoshop

Unlike diseases of the body, which could be attributed with definite biochemical or structural abnormalities, mental illness cannot be objectively diagnosed. Social constructionist presumes mental illnesses to be a mechanism of social control of deviant behavior, a system of segregation of institutionalization generated by psychiatrists with the authority to define, and label deviants.

QUOTE (right)
Placing people in categories, exaggerating the differences between <i>“them and us”</i> does not eliminate the differences within <i>“us” </i>.


 Nevertheless, current society values an individual’s responsibility for their own mental health, which also considers mental health to be a complex medical issue of interwoven factors of biochemistry, genes, brain structural, psychological, biological, social, and environmental.2

Accordingly, subjectivity and context relativity were immensely significant to the individual experiencing it, which creates complication in the process of identifying and categorizing mental illness. While researches and discourses regarding persons of mental illness were placing emphasis on the diagnosis, classification and treatment, my objective exists in disclosing the subjectivity of mental illness experiences and identity development through research and design. From express graphically the complexity of mental illness, the project intends to humanize mental illness, and individuals with mental illness, as well as to diminish stigmas and discriminations existed in the society. It’s crucial to remember that definitions of healthy or unhealthy are constantly changing as societies evolve and design has an imperative role in enhancing a better understanding of mental illness in the society.




HEADING:
A Life of Labels

SUBHEAD:
Individuals with mental illness face countless barriers and challenges in the present society, what affects them the most would be the stigma that’s associatively attached to mental illness.

ESSAY:
Stigma has become a marker for adverse experiences, which includes, a sense of shame, blame, and secrecy in the self-stigmatization process. Studies have shown that individuals with mental illness are making efforts to conceal the illness from others. Family and friends also endure stigma by association, often referred to as “courtesy stigma”.

QUOTE (in text)
The concealment of illness seriously hindered treatment of mental illness at all stages, it reduces their social networks and removes them from potential supports.

The process of stigmatization is a process of devaluation, individual with mental illness takes on the social role of being “mental ill”. Akin to physical disabilities, this is a label that generates a self-defining state, denies them the perspective of being capable in other social roles, such as parent, spouse, or employee. Public declaration will reconstruct labeled individual’s social interaction, either making them vulnerable to discrimination or limiting their participation in society. They are usually not expected to engage in social activities, such as employment or romantic relationships.3

 While mass media might be the most powerful tool in distributing information, it directly affects societal perspective and understanding of mental health. Implications of often negative portrayals, or inaccurate presentation regarding mental illness, causes misunderstandings, confusion and conflict. Consequently, it could delay help and treatment for people in need, or it could push them to the fringes of society living in isolation.4

QUOTE (in text)
 From the inaccuracy and narrow-focused stories, stigma perpetuates through media and strengthens stereotypes in the public.

Nevertheless, recognizing the fact that with design intergraded into media, it has the potential to challenge and replace the stereotypes. Further, this project aims to promote better mental health understanding and to create emotional resonance with viewing audience.








HEADING:
Manifesto

SUBHEAD:
Design should bring the necessities of people in need into public attention, and diminish the barriers in their lives.
ESSAY:
 Although discrimination against individuals with mental health issues was more common for the people with lower social and economic status, discrimination does occur across every aspect of social and economic existence.3 Persons with mental health issues in the society do not receive the same attention as physical issues. Still, there are negative notions of mental illness existing in various cultures of society.

QUOTE (left)
Unlike physical issues, which being sick or catching a cold is a common occurrence, persons with mental health conditions were commonly viewed as an expression of the individual’s moral shortcomings, or an absence of reason.2

Linking with common misconceptions in the society such as persons with depression were moody and so on. This research project aspires to reverse typical myths produced through culture, tradition, and media, thereby diminishes the intolerance and prejudice surrounding mental illness.

IMAGE 2 (right) <i> Drowning Each Breath </i>, Sarah Zou, Printed paper underwater & Photoshop


Mass media frequently display mental illness in its worst state. While bringing the issues into the public’s attention, it overlooks the fact that, like physical condition, there are varying degrees to an illness, it could completely affect a person’s life, or it could be merely part of their life. Yet, the majority of the population living “normal” life with mental illness were under-represented in the mass media, making the labeling harder to obliterate.

Moreover, many people with a mental health condition also have co-existing physical conditions, often leading to decreased stamina or dexterity restrictions which can make everyday living more demanding.5 Their living needs should be brought into public attention, and design should be playing a role in the improvement of their lives. The proposition of this research project is to embrace an affirmative perspective on mental health and encourage an attitude toward treating mental health issues equally as physical issues. Simultaneously arise the notion that mental illness should not define the Individual that’s living with it. After all, mental illness was now similar to any other physical condition and could be treated.


Citation:

1. Kondrat, David and Brittany Wilkins. “Mental Illness.” In Encyclopedia of Social Deviance, edited by Craig J. Forsyth and Heith Copes, 430-432. Thousand Oaks, CA:
SAGE Publications, Inc., 2014. doi: 10.4135/9781483340470.n173.
2. “Mental Health.” In Opposing Viewpoints Online Collection. Detroit: Gale, 2016. Opposing Viewpoints in Context (accessed November 16, 2017).
3. Bynre, Peter. “Stigma of mental illness and ways of diminishing it.” Advances in Psychiatric Treatment 6, no. 1 (January 2000): 65-72. Accessed November 17, 2015.
doi:10.1192/apt.6.1.65.
4. Baun, Kismet. “Stigma Matters: The Media’s Impact on Public Perceptions of Mental Illness.” Ottawa Life, February 2009, 31-33. Accessed November 18, 2017.
5. O’Reilly, Áine, Emer Whelan, and Isoilde Dillon. “Design for Mental Health.” Housing Agency. Accessed November 18, 2017.


Bio Section
+ Sarah Zou
+ Bio (the one already on there is fine)
+ Links: sarahzou.wixsite.com/design
+ Photo (in blue monotone)
• ・




