HEADING:
The Desire in Design

ESSAY:
Getting off in Design

IMAGE 1 (left)
CAPTION: <i>Latex Sheet<i> – Egor Sokolov, Sculpture, 2017

Dark corners, the smell of leather, screams of pleasure and clanking of chains—all design—creating an eroticism and fixation towards this so-called “fetish” culture. As much as fetish is driven by the user’s endorphin it’s also a performance. From the tools being used: gage-balls, floggers, whips, and cuffs to the relationship of master and slave everything is designed to let the user experience a rush of emotions. Design in this sense is both materials based and performative. The feeling of a leather flogger slapping you on the back—maybe you’re enjoying it—from the way it’s held to the way it has to swing. These rules which are created to make sure there is a safe and consent way of acting when participating in a fetish relationship. But also the performative nature of how the master/misters will walk around the room—commanding assertively—the submissive slave to follow, act and participate. All these things are designed for the user, to potentially “get off”—this could be quite aggressive; not all fetish relationships involve a sexual pleasure. Sometimes to “get off” can be a releasing of endorphins, bottled up inside waiting to ease all the tension away from the body. Design plays a significant role in the fetish culture, both to educate the way of being in a fetish relationship, as well as how to experience a fetish. In the same time fetish is designed to be performed, in the same way how gender can be performed, but also can be performative. Judith Butler states:

QUOTE (right)
<i>“When we say gender is performed we usually mean that we've taken on a role or we're acting in some way and that our acting or our role playing is crucial to the gender that we are and the gender that we present to the world. To say that gender is performative is a little different because for something to be performative means that it produces a series of effects.We act and walk and speak and talk in ways that consolidate an impression of being a man or being a woman.”<i>

IMAGE 2 (left)
CAPTION: <i>HE’S MY DOM<i> – Egor Sokolov, Digital Print on News Print, 2017

In a way fetish is designed to be performed within gender. Roles of power are placed upon individuals, making it performative for them to have control in their everyday lives. But then fetish comes along and the roles of power start to change, people seem to put on a new mask and showcase their inner desires. In a way roles of dominance and submission start to blur the lines of gender and the performative nature of fetish begins to appear. In addition to designing our gender roles, we now have to understand how to design roles when it comes to having a fetish.ESSAY:
Kern me tighter!
IMAGE 3 (right)
CAPTION: <i>Dirty Boy<I> – Egor Sokolov, Mixed Media Collage, 2017

Slave, come over here! Do you want more? You dirty pig! Did I say you can do that! What do you want daddy to do to you? Who’s your master? You’re a worthless piece of shit! Sit! You like it when I do these things to you! As uninviting and aggressive this language is to those not knowing the content—it’s designed—this language is meant to be provocative and diminishing. It’s the language of “fetish”. For a moment let’s think about how aggressive these sayings are and relate it to the fact society has designed “fetish” to be represented in a dark, horrific and aggressive way. The types of visual representation consist of wearing tight and provocative leather outfits, having some kind of GIMP mask, being locked/tied or gagged with objects, and being either being hyper-sexual or hyper-masculine. Visual culture is representing fetish as something extremely sexual, when in reality sometimes to have a fetish can mean enjoying the beauty of the object. Leaving many people confused and asking, what is a fetish? Is a fetish wanting to be slapped and diminished, treated like an object of affection or even getting aroused by the sight of an object? Or could a fetish be having a hyper-masculine male or female do things to your body and you have no say or control over the situation. Making fetish to be this universal concept which ties into everything and anything. By definition, in <i>The International Encyclopedia of Human Sexuality—fetish<i>:


QUOTE (left)
“A profound feeling that a human being has for an inanimate object, activity, or situation. It may be a deep erotic desire for something, often clothing, such as high heels, a belt, bra, or burqa; or a body part, such as a woman's breast, foot, or hair. One may also have a fetish for an activity, like spanking or being watched; or a situation, such as a mistress–slave or doctor–patient relationship. Whatever the fetish object, activity, or situation, the fetishist invests great power in it—sometimes great sexual power, sometimes great religious power, and sometimes a mixture of both.”

IMAGE 4 (right)
CAPTION: <i>Objects of Desire<i> – Egor Sokolov, Risograph and Laser Cut, 2017

Even then this explanation, doesn’t fully justify what fetish is. It states the obvious that a fetish is an “activity and situation,” but it neglects to show that a fetish doesn’t have to be related to anything sexual. We are left to wonder do we really know what a fetish is? There might be a way for design to make fetish less aggressive than what it looks like through visual representation.


FOOTNOTES:
Butler, Judith. <i>“Your Behavior Creates Your Gender”<i>. © 2011 Big Think.
M. Block, Susan. "Fetish." <i>In The International Encyclopedia of Human Sexuality<i>, edited by Patricia Whelehan, and Anne Bolin. Wiley, 2015. http://ocadu.idm.oclc.org/login?url=https://search.credoreference.com/content/entry/wileyhs/fetish/0?institutionId=4079


BIO:
Egor Sokolov is a Toronto-based visual designer. Through his use of digital and analog mediums, including intaglio, silkscreen, letterpress, installation, typography, editorial, and packaging, he explores themes of memory, transition, change, reconnection, and stability.

LINKS:
website — http://brokeboydesign.com
