VISIBLE CONTENT———————————————Cover Image (PNG): 1800 x 200 px+ Name / KeywordINSIDE CONTENT——————————————Heading or TitleMotion Graphic in Public Spaces+ SubheadingLayout Images (PNG) (in slider)    about 3600px wideEssay TextMy current research interests are in applying my artistic expertise and multi-cultural background into design, specifically, making motion graphics. Drawing has been my main way to explore curiosity. With regards to my illustrations, I hope to explore ink brush painting within motion graphic. My passion for traditional Chinese art was fostered when I was a child. For me, the loose brush strokes and sensitive colours of ink painting can powerfully evoke the moods and intentions. IMAGE 1 (right) <i> Motion </i>, Xi Mo, Ink Painting in motion graphic & PhotoshopEvoking the primitive childish desire to explore the unknown and happiness has always been my passion of creating things. More specifically, the human’s immanent desire of fear, pain, delight, existence and negative pleasure (the so-called sublime affect) in this postmodern ear.1 Now, we are all experiencing the whole sense of fluctuating identity, there is no stable ground to make sense of the world.2 The everyday experience of ‘stuplimity’ which combines boredom and astonishment, banality and various negative emotions dulls our sensibility to space, time and even humanize when we “seamlessly articulate with an intelligent machine”.3 However, the constantly pursuit of happiness and recognition of the unpresentable existence in the world is the ultimate energy for humans striving to live, affecting our emotion, energy, and relationship to the surrounding environment. Motion graphic’s ability as a “living media” brings all the awareness of surrounding world through transforming time and space into another immersive world. IMAGE 2 (left) <i> More and More </i>, Xi Mo, Motion Typhography & PhotoshopIMAGE 3 (right) <i> Salmon </i>, Xi Mo, Motion Graphic & PhotoshopI am now making motion graphic design and trying to explore the magical connection between the form transformation of motion graphic and post-human identity with the mediation of space and time. I see that there is no visible line between art and design, motion graphic design closely Interacts with fine art in both aesthetic and technical aspects. I am interested in motion graphics as a design medium, because it is a balanced interdisciplinary of different realms of design including illustration, typography, sign, color, sound and motion among others, designing a space for immersive experience. For me, although story telling is a fundamental element of traditional motion graphic, the most fantastic part of motion graphic is the shape transformation. More importantly, the motion graphics is a medium that can play with space and time.  I believe that shape transformation is a metaphor for the fluctuating human inner sensibility and identity.  After study on the early exploration of experimental animations and shape transformation during the first half of 20th Century, I found that motion graphic is much more than conventional understanding of animation or title sequence.  I embrace ideas of “pure cinema” from 20s, which is similar to Hickcock’s statement of ‘pure cinema’ in film, and the treatment and understanding of the kinetic energy of shape and color, which even without any figurative object creates tension through transformation. IMAGE 4 (right) <i> I’d like to dance </i>, Xi Mo, motion Graphic & Photoshop+ Footnotes (un-numbered list)1. SHAW, PHILIP. SUBLIME. Place of publication not identified: Psychology Press, 2006.2. Tsutsui, William M. Japanese popular culture and globalization. Ann Arbor, MI: Association for Asian Studies, 2010.3. Shinkle, Eugénie. “Video Games and the Technological Sublime.” Tate. Accessed November 19, 2017. 4. Ibid., 31.5. Krasner, Jon S. Motion graphic design, fine art animation: principles and practice. Boston: Elsevier/Focal Press, 2004, 15.Bio Section+ BioXi Mo is a current MDES student in York University. Drawing and painting have always been her passion to explore ideas, and now she is working in experimental motion graphics through the blend between design and art. She has obtained double degrees in both Visual Arts and Geology in Western University since her interest in art and the metamorphic process of rock. Now, she is focusing on exploring the meaning of motion and form transformation in motion graphic, and its connection to contemporary fluidity of living space. 		+ Links (website, etc)+ Photo (in blue monotone)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------